# Configuration

This module provides a few options to customize its behavior.

## Lazy-loading

By default, `nuxt-particles` lazy-loads the [tsParticles](https://particles.js.org) library. This means that the library
will only be loaded the first time the [`<NuxtParticles>`](/components/nuxt-particles) component is used in your application.

You may disable this behavior by setting the `lazy` option to `false`:

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  // ...
  particles: {
    lazy: false
  }
})
```

::alert{type="warning"}
⚠️ Be careful! If you disable lazy-loading, the tsParticles library will be loaded *before* your application using a Nuxt
plugin. This will make particles render negligibly earlier at the cost of significant load-time performance. Don't disable
this option unless the [Total Blocking Time](https://web.dev/tbt/) web vital is not of concern to your application.
::


## Mode

The `mode` option allows you to choose which bundle of the tsParticles library to use. The default value is `full`.
`slim` uses the
[`@tsparticles/slim`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tsparticles/slim)
package, while `basic` uses the
[`@tsparticles/basic`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tsparticles/basic) 
package. See their respective documentation for more information.

If you are not using certain advanced features of the tsParticles library, you may want to try out the `slim` or `basic`
bundles to avoid sending unnecessary JS to the client.

::alert{type="info"}
🛈 The `slim` mode should work for most use-cases!
::

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  // ...
  particles: {
    mode: 'full' // 'full' | 'slim' | 'basic' | 'custom'
  }
})
```

### Custom mode

If you'd like to fully control how the tsParticles library is loaded, you may use the `custom` mode. This will prevent
the `nuxt-particles` module from loading the tsParticles library, allowing you to load it yourself.
[Lazy-loading](#lazy-loading) will also be implicitly disabled.

Somewhere on the client-side of your application **before** the [`<NuxtParticles>`](/components/nuxt-particles)
component is rendered, you must manually initialize the tsParticles library (such as in your app.vue):

```vue
<!-- app.vue -->
<template>
  <NuxtPage />
  <!-- ... -->
</template>

<script setup lang="ts">
import { tsParticles } from '@tsparticles/engine'
import { loadFull } from 'tsparticles' // or whichever bundle you wish to use

if (import.meta.client) {
  // This example will BLOCK your application from rendering until the tsParticles library is initialized
  // You can put this in some other place if you know that you won't be loading particles until after the first paint
  await loadFull(tsParticles)
}
</script>
```

This also makes it possible to build a custom bundle of the tsParticles library by manually providing plugins.
If bundle sizes are of the utmost importance, this is likely the best option for you.

```vue
<!-- ... -->
<script setup lang="ts">
import { tsParticles } from '@tsparticles/engine'
import { loadStarShape } from '@tsparticles/shape-star'
import { loadPolygonPath } from '@tsparticles/path-polygon'

await loadStarShape(tsParticles)
await loadPolygonPath(tsParticles)
</script>
```
